1) - Right near the start, I've made the stairs-up-to-armor area into a key-gate
where the red key is needed to progress, beyond which is one of a few tiny
"hell corners". For here, I wanted the player to tip their toes in sludge
while fighting through a small passage.
I felt the overall outdoor area beyond the former armor-on-pedestal spot
needed some more expansion.

2) - Following one of Romero's rules where every visible outdoor area
has to be accesible to the player somehow, I've made that little window area
that was introduced in E1M4 with some gore on a cliff into a secret for the
soulsphere.

3) - I felt like there were too many monster closets,
first introduced in E1M3 and then carried over to E1M4. I've decided to remove
most of those. That's why the north east area that was added in E1M2 was replaced
with a tiny spoopy section, not too difficult combat wise.

I thought to make the lostsouls (a deliberately rare) enemy mildly special by
having them teleport ambush you. Nothing too fancy.

4) - The only other similar teleport trap event is the secret chainsaw pickup.
Only instead of lostsouls, it's pinkies or spectres depending on the difficulty level.

5) - The crusher area where you get the red key, past the zigzag bridge was admittedly
inspired by that one map in Romero's SIGIL wad.

Another thing to notice is that two out of the three keys has nearby teleporters.
The red one allows you to avoid going past the crushers again and the blue key one
bypasses backtracking to the blue door. Like a small reward for getting the key
instead of the obvious ambush that happens. (It still happens with the yellow key.)


6) - Lastly I wanted the exit to not always be the same as it always was. So I chose
what started as a secret area in E1M2 as the new exit.
Given I was running out of time, the exit area isn't exactly to my satisfaction but it'll have
to do.

7) -  I almost forgot, I added a primitive (optional) puzzle for one of the secrets. :)
(Oh, and a BFG with some cells, marked as "Multiplayer only". That's about the only
deathmatch related change.)





Overall, I wanted to introduce some new elements after E1M2 and M3 felt a little to samey,
(especially with the monster closets). At the same time, I didn't want to deviate *too* much.
Some E2 enemies were added, like cacos and lostsouls, but they're rare on purpose.
Like things are just started to get interesting etc etc.

And I guess I just wanted an excuse to try my hand at Ye-Olde Doom Map Format. It was fun.